SUSPIRIA (1977):
Miss Tanner: This is Pavlo, our general handyman. He's really ugly, isn't he? Don't be afraid to say so. Can't understand you anyway, he speaks only Romanian. You see that gorgeous smile? He's felt very handsome ever since he got those false teeth

3 WOMEN (1977): 
Pinky Rose: I wonder what it's like to be twins.
Millie Lammoreaux: Huh?
Pinky Rose: Twins. Bet it'd be weird. Do you think they know which ones they are?
Millie Lammoreaux: Sure they do. They'd have to, wouldn't they?
Pinky Rose: I don't know. Maybe they switch back and forth. You know, one day, Peggy's Polly. Another day, Polly's Peggy. Who knows? Maybe they're the same one all the time.

TRAINSPOTTING (1996):
Tommy: Doesn't it make you proud to be Scottish?
Mark "Rent-boy" Renton: It's SHITE being Scottish! We're the lowest of the low. The scum of the fucking Earth! The most wretched, miserable, servile, pathetic trash that was ever shat into civilization. Some hate the English. I don't. They're just wankers. We, on the other hand, are COLONIZED by wankers. Can't even find a decent culture to be colonized BY. We're ruled by effete arseholes. It's a SHITE state of affairs to be in, Tommy, and ALL the fresh air in the world won't make any fucking difference!

ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN (1976):
Howard Simons: Did you call the White House press office?
Bob Woodward: I went over there; I talked to them. They said Hunt hadn't worked there for three months. Then a PR guy said this weird thing to me. He said, "I am convinced that neither Mr. Colson nor anyone else at the White House had any knowledge of, or participation in, this deplorable incident at the Democratic National Committee."
Howard Simons: Isn't that what you expect them to say?
Bob Woodward: Absolutely.
Howard Simons: So?
Bob Woodward: I never asked about Watergate. I simply asked what were Hunt's duties at the White House. They volunteered he was innocent when nobody asked if he was guilty.
Howard Simons: Be careful how you write it.

CRIA! (1976):
Maria: It's all a lie. There is nothing. Nothing. They lied to me. I'm scared. I don't want to die. I'm afraid. I don't want to die! It hurts! It hurts! It hurts! It hurts.

ROCKY (1976):
Rocky: I can't do it.
Adrian: What?
Rocky: I can't beat him.
Adrian: Apollo?
Rocky: Yeah. I been out there walkin' around, thinkin'. I mean, who am I kiddin'? I ain't even in the guy's league.
Adrian: What are we gonna do?
Rocky: I don't know.
Adrian: You worked so hard.
Rocky: Yeah, that don't matter. 'Cause I was nobody before.
Adrian: Don't say that.
Rocky: Ah come on, Adrian, it's true. I was nobody. But that don't matter either, you know? 'Cause I was thinkin', it really don't matter if I lose this fight. It really don't matter if this guy opens my head, either. 'Cause all I wanna do is go the distance. Nobody's ever gone the distance with Creed, and if I can go that distance, you see, and that bell rings and I'm still standin', I'm gonna know for the first time in my life, see, that I weren't just another bum from the neighborhood.

HARLAN COUNTY, USA (1976):
Hawley Wells Jr.: [...] that was when I learned my first real political lesson, about what happens when you take a position against the coal operators, against the capitalists... I found out that the union officials were working with the coal companies. I also found that the Catholic hierarchy was working with the coal companies. Here was a combination of the whole thing, you see: you had to bump against the whole combination of them.

FALLEN ANGELS (1995):
[last lines]
The Killer's Agent: As I was leaving, I asked if he'd give me a ride home. I hadn't ridden on a motorcycle in a long time. Actually, I hadn't been that close to a man for a while. The road wasn't that long, and I knew I'd be getting off soon. But at that moment I felt such warmth.

THE CHAOS CLASS FAILED THE CLASS (1975):
Mahmut Hoca: Tembel çocuk, hatalı çocuk, suçlu çocuk yoktur; hatalı ve hatta suçlu ana baba vardır.  (Translation: There is no such thing as a lazy, flawed, or guilty child; there are only flawed and even guilty parents.

NASHVILLE (1975):
Hal Phillip Walker: Who do you think is running Congress? Farmers? Engineers? Teachers? Businessmen? No, my friends. Congress is run by lawyers. A lawyer is trained for two things and two things only. To clarify - that's one. And to confuse - that's the other thing. He does whichever is to his client's advantage. Did you ever ask a lawyer the time of day? He told you how to make a watch, didn't he? Ever ask a lawyer how to get to Mr. Jones' house in the country? You got lost, didn't you? Congress is composed of five hundred and thirty-five individuals. Two hundred and eighty-eight are lawyers. And you wonder what's wrong in Congress? No wonder we often know how to make a watch, but we don't know - the time of day.

THE PROMISED LAND (1975):
Karol Borowiecki: I have nothing, you have nothing, and he has nothing; that means together we have enough to start a factory.

UNDERGROUND (1995):
Marko: A war is no war until the brother kills his brother.

THE TRAVELING PLAYERS (1975):
Elektra's Father: [before he is executed by the Germans] I came across the sea, from Ionia. Where did you come from?

BEFORE SUNRISE (1995):
Celine: I believe if there's any kind of God it wouldn't be in any of us, not you or me but just this little space in between. If there's any kind of magic in this world it must be in the attempt of understanding someone sharing something. I know, it's almost impossible to succeed but who cares really? The answer must be in the attempt.

ALI: FEAR EATS THE SOUL (1974):
Girl in bar: Well... are you coming?
Ali: No.
Girl in bar: And why not?
Ali: Cock broken.

THE ENIGMA OF KASPAR HAUSER (1974):
Kaspar Hauser: Nothing lives less in me than my life.

THREE COLOURS: BLUE (1993):
Julie Vignon: Now I have just one thing left to do: nothing. I want no possessions, no memories, no friends, no lovers -- they're all traps.

PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE (1974):
The Phantom: [to Beef] Never sing my music again. Not here, not anywhere. Do you understand? Never again. My music is for Phoenix. Only she can sing it. Anyone else who tries, dies!

ALICE IN THE CITIES (1974):
Philip 'Phil' Winter: The inhuman thing about American TV is not so much that they hack everything up with commercials, though that's bad enough, but in the end all programmes become commercials. Commercials for the status quo. Every image radiates the same disgusting and nauseated message. A kind of boastful contempt. Not one image leaves you in peace, they all want something from you.

DAY FOR NIGHT (1973):
Julie: Liliane ran off with the stuntman.
Joelle: Does Alphonse know?
Julie: I had to tell him.
Joelle: With the stuntman? I'd drop a guy for a film. I'd never drop a film for a guy!

THREE COLOURS: WHITE (1994):
Jurek: [interrupts Karol while he's shaving] So, are you happy here?
Karol Karol: In the bathroom?
Jurek: No, in general.

PUNISHMENT PARK (1971):
James Daly, defense attorney: Ladies and gentlemen of the court, I would like to read something to you: “The streets of our country are seething. The universities are overflowing with students who are rebelling and rioting. The communists are seeking to destroy our country. Russia threatens us with its power, and the republic is in danger. Yes, danger within and without. We need law and order, or our nation cannot survive.” We could all be forgiven for assuming these are the words of our president. But they are not. These words were spoken in 1932 by Adolf Hitler.

THE CONFORMIST (1970): 
Italo: A normal man? For me, a normal man is one who turns his head to see a beautiful woman's bottom. The point is not just to turn your head. There are five or six reasons. And he is glad to find people who are like him, his equals. That's why he likes crowded beaches, football, the bar downtown... He likes people similar to himself and does not trust those who are different. That's why a normal man is a true brother, a true citizen, a true patriot...
Marcello: A true fascist.

THREE COLOURS: RED (1994):
Valentine: If I had to go to court... are there still judges like you?
Le juge: You won't go to court. Justice doesn't deal with the innocent.

HEARTS AND MINDS (1974):
Gen. William Westmoreland: The Oriental doesn't put the same high price on life as does the Westerner. Life is plentiful, life is cheap in the Orient. And, eh, that's the philosophy of the Orient. Expresses it - life is not important.

CELINE AND JULIE GO BOATING (1974):
Olivier: There is a homosexual pancreas in the closet.

CRUMB (1994):
Charles Crumb: How perfectly goddamned delightful it all is, to be sure.

KRAMER VS. KRAMER (1979):
Ted Kramer: Margaret, I just need to know something. Did you put Joanna up to this?
Margaret Phelps: No, I did not put Joanna up to this.
Ted Kramer: Give her a little pep talk, maybe?
Margaret Phelps: Joanna is a very unhappy woman and it took a lot of courage to walk out this door.
Ted Kramer: How much courage does it take to walk out on your kid?

TAIGA (1992):
2.5 star review: It’s long, very long. 8 hours and 20 minutes does not pass easily.

THE STING (1973):
Floyd: Doyle, I KNOW I gave him four THREES! He had to make a SWITCH! We can't let him get away with that.
Doyle Lonnegan: What was I supposed to do, call him for cheating better than me in front of the others?

THE HOURGLASS SANATORIUM (1973):
Doctor Gotard: Here, your father's death is yet to occur; in your country, that same death has already struck him.

BADLANDS (1973):
Kit Carruthers: [recording a message] My girl Holly and I decided to kill ourselves. The same way I did her Daddy. Big decision, you know. Uh, the reasons are obvious. I don't have time to go into right now. But, one thing though, he was provoking me when I popped him. Well that's what it was like. Pop. I'm sorry. I mean, nobody's coming out of this thing happy. Especially not us. I can't deny we've had fun though.

JUVENILE COURT (1973):
Juvenile Detention Mentor: Don't cry yet. You haven't even been to court.

EIGHT DEADLY SHOTS (1972):
[first lines]
Booze was the root of all evil in our family.

CURE (1997):
Kunio Mamiya: Who are you?

SATANTANGO (1994):
Irimiás: I am in a state of deep emotion. As you can imagine, I am totally confused. I am bewildered and shocked. Yet I must pull myself together. Though right now all I can say is that I share in this broken-hearted mother's misery. In a mother's never-ending mourning and sorrow. In the grief of losing the one who is dearest to our hearts. This tragic event weighs us all down with sadness. I don't think there's anyone who would disagree with me. And now the hardest thing is, in this sadness with our teeth clenched, to get our minds over the heartbreak, to defy our tears when our voices fail us. For, and I would like to call your attention to this, nothing can be more important than for us to reconstruct the shocking events which led to the terrible death of an innocent child... before the police start investigating. You'd better expect that the inspectors from town will try to make us primarily responsible for this awful event. Yes, my friends, they're going to blame us. Because, to be quite honest... with a little caution, care and attention, we could have prevented it. Just imagine this vulnerable creature wandering all night long in the pouring rain, at the mercy of the first passer-by, of the first tramp, of anybody. She was whipped by the wind all night, she fell easy prey to the elements. She must have been around here, wandering here all the time. She may have looked in through this window and saw that you were all drunk and dancing around. Don't get me wrong, I don't mean to accuse anyone personally. I am not accusing the mother, who is never going to forgive herself for getting up too late in the morning of that awful day. I am not accusing the victim's brother, nor any other members of the family. So I am not accusing anyone. But let me ask you the question, aren't we all guilty? You will, of course, answer that we are innocent. But then, what do we call this poor child? The victim of the innocent? The martyr of the faultless? The slaughtered of the sinless? I'd rather call her innocent. I spent the night turning in my bed till I realised this. Not only do we not know how the tragic event happened, but we don't really even know what exactly happened. I am quite convinced that this event was fated to happen. Now you also seem to suspect that. It is not enough, however, to suspect something. Things are to be understood and said without delay. It had been quite clear for you before coming here, but you were too afraid to say that this yard was ruled by misfortune. You didn't dare talk about it. Now you may rightly suppose an irrevocable judgment is coming soon. You are slouching around in this decay, far away from everything that means life. Your plans come to nothing, your dreams, still blind, are shattered. You expect some miracle which will never come. But what kind of misfortune are you the victims of? Is it the crumbling plaster, the roofs without tiles, the crumbling walls, the sour taste our friend Futaki keeps talking about? Isn't it the shattered prospects, and broken dreams, that bend our knees and wear us numb? Don't be surprised that I speak harshly, but let us be honest. If you felt the yard was ruled by misfortune, why didn't you try to do something about it? You thought a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. But this is a coward's way. It is disgraceful and careless and it has serious consequences. This is called impotence, sinful impotence. This is weakness, sinful weakness. This is cowardice, sinful cowardice. Because, and bear this in mind, it's not just to others that we can do unforgivable things, but also to ourselves. And this, my friends, is even more serious. Yes, when you think about it, all kinds of vileness are sins against ourselves. And you know, my friends, if I think back and see you lying half-dead on the chairs and tables, on top of each other, dribbling, exhausted, my heart sinks and I cannot judge you, for I will never be able to forget this. From your panting, snoring and groaning, I heard your cry for help which I have to answer. We know each other well. I have been keeping my eyes wide-open for decades everywhere. I bitterly observe that, under the thick veil of trickery and deception, nothing has changed. Misery has remained misery. The two extra spoonfuls of food we can have only makes the air thinner in front of our mouths. But I realised what I have done so far is nothing. A much deeper solution is needed. So, using the opportunity, I decided... to get some people together and set up a model farm, which will ensure a stable living, and bind this tiny group of the dispossessed together. I am creating an island where no one is powerless, where everyone will live in peace, and will feel safe as human beings. That is why I left for the manor in Almás. The main building is in good condition, the rental agreement is a simple matter. There's just one problem... no use in trying to keep it a secret from you... the money. Without a penny, the whole thing is dead. Capital is needed for production, but this is a bit complicated. There's no point in going into details. And you'll understand that the circumstances of our meeting made me feel uncertain, whether you would be able to do it. Whether you would be able to offer the little money, the result of your extra hard work and much hardship, to hand over for a hasty idea. Think about it. Calm your thoughts. Do not decide straight away. But if fate decides that from now on we stay together, inseparable, do remember the price that has been paid. Do not forget the child... who may have had to perish for the very reason so our star could finally rise. Who knows, my friends? All we know for certain is... that life is very hard on us.

HOOP DREAMS (1994):
William Gates: That's why when somebody say, "when you get to the NBA, don't forget about me", and that stuff. Well, I should've said to them, "if I don't make it, don't you forget about me."

THE LONG GOODBYE (1973):
Philip Marlowe: Nobody cares but me.
Terry Lennox: Well that's you, Marlowe. You'll never learn, you're a born loser.
Philip Marlowe: Yeah, I even lost my cat. (shoots Terry).

NAKED (1993):
Louise: So what happened, were you bored in Manchester?
Johnny: Was I bored? No, I wasn't fuckin' bored. I'm never bored. That's the trouble with everybody - you're all so bored. You've had nature explained to you and you're bored with it, you've had the living body explained to you and you're bored with it, you've had the universe explained to you and you're bored with it. So now you want cheap thrills and like plenty of them, and it don't matter how tawdry or vacuous they are as long as it's new, as long as it's new, as long as it flashes and fuckin' bleeps in forty fuckin' different colors. So whatever else you can say about me, I'm not fuckin' bored.
Louise: Yeah. All right.
Johnny: So how's it all going for you?
Louise: It's a bit boring, actually.

F FOR FAKE (1973):
Orson Welles: At the very beginning, I did make you a promise. Remember? I did promise that for one hour, I'd tell you only the truth. That hour, ladies and gentlemen, is over. For the past seventeen minutes, I've been lying my head off.

THE WRONG TROUSERS (1993):
Wallace: [upon falling through the trap door into the techno-trousers, instead of his normal trousers] It's the wrong trousers! The wrong trousers!

A TOUCH OF ZEN (1970):
Shen Chai's Mother: Why study if not to be an official?
Ku Shen Chai: I study for the knowledge.
Shen Chai's Mother: But you don't seem to know anything!

MCCABE & MRS. MILLER (1971):
Butler: That man? That man never killed anybody.

THE DEVILS (1971):
Louis XIII: Reverend Father, I notice that you don't speak to these creatures in Latin as is usual. Why is that?
Barre: They're not conversant with the language. You'll understand, sire, there are uneducated as well as educated devils.
Jeanne: [in a growling voice as she crawls like a crab] I haven't travelled much.
Louis XIII: Quite.

TWIN PEAKS: FIRE WALK WITH ME (1992):
Special Agent Dale Cooper: Lately I've been filled with the knowledge that the killer will strike again. But because it is just a feeling, I am powerless to stop it. One more thing, Albert. When the next murder happens, you will help me solve it.
Albert Rosenfeld: Let's test it for the record. Will the next victim be a man or a woman?
Special Agent Dale Cooper: A woman.
Albert Rosenfeld: All right. What color hair will she have?
Special Agent Dale Cooper: Blonde.
Albert Rosenfeld: Tell me some other things about her.
Special Agent Dale Cooper: She's in high school. She is sexually active. She is using drugs. She's crying out for help.
Albert Rosenfeld: Well damn, Cooper, that really narrows it down. You're talking about half the high school girls in America!

THE RED CIRCLE (1970):
Le chef de la police: All men are guilty. They're born innocent, but it doesn't last.

UNFORGIVEN (1992):
Will Munny: Who's the fellow that owns this shithole?
[pause]
Will Munny: You, fat man. Speak up.
Skinny Dubois: Uh, I... I own this establishment. I bought the place from Greeley for a thousand dollars.
[Will levels the shotgun, and speaks to someone standing behind Skinny]
Will Munny: You better clear outta there.
Man: Yes, sir.
[scampers out of the way]
Little Bill Daggett: Just hold it right there. Hold it...!
[Will shoots Skinny. Screaming, the women scatter upstairs]
Little Bill Daggett: Well, sir, you are a cowardly son of a bitch! You just shot an unarmed man!
Will Munny: Well, he should have armed himself if he's going to decorate his saloon with my friend.

RAISE THE RED LANTERN (1991):
The Third Concubine: Good or bad, it's all playacting. If you act well, you can fool other people; if you do it badly, you can only fool yourself, and when you can't even fool yourself, you just can fool the ghosts.

LA BELLE NOISEUSE (1991):
Frenhofer: I want to know and see the inside of your body, the whole body, not just some pieces. I don't care about your breasts, legs, your lips. I want more.

NEAR DEATH (1989):
Estate Executor: Incredible kind of nightmare scenarios that get played out. Two thirds of all your health care costs are incurred in the final 21 days of life.

THE SWIMMER (1968):
Ned Merrill: Pool by pool, they form a river all the way to our house.

BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID (1969):
[first lines]
Butch Cassidy: [gradually watches, dismayed, as iron bars, shutters and locks seal up a bank at closing time, darkening the room] What happened to the old bank? It was beautiful!
Guard: People kept robbing it.
Butch Cassidy: ...Small price to pay for beauty.

COOL HAND LUKE (1967):
[Luke wins a poker hand on a bluff]
Dragline: Nothin'! A handful of nothin'. You stupid mullet head, he beat you with nothin', just like today when he kept comin' back at me, with nothin'.
Luke: Yeah, well... sometimes nothin' can be a real cool hand.

KES (1969):
Jud: Oi, Billy! Hands off cocks, on socks!

THE WILD BUNCH (1969):
Pike Bishop: If they move, kill 'em!

THE GRADUATE (1967):
Mr. McGuire: I just want to say one word to you. Just one word.
Benjamin: Yes, sir.
Mr. McGuire: Are you listening?
Benjamin: Yes, I am.
Mr. McGuire: Plastics.
Benjamin: Exactly how do you mean?
Mr. McGuire: There's a great future in plastics. Think about it. Will you think about it?

BONNIE AND CLYDE (1967):
Bonnie Parker: [to Clyde] You're just like your brother. Ignorant, uneducated hillbilly, except the only special thing about you is your peculiar ideas about love-making, which is no love-making at all.

MIDNIGHT COWBOY (1969):
Ratso Rizzo: I'm walking here! I'm walking here!

WAIT UNTIL DARK (1967):
Roat: [about the murdered Lisa] Well, she was trespassing, Mike... poaching. Going into the business for herself. Bad news. Things like that go on, and what do you have? Anarchy. No discipline, no sense of order. Bad news.

THE LION IN WINTER (1968):
Eleanor of Aquitaine: I adored you. I still do.
Henry II: Of all the lies you've told, that is the most terrible.
Eleanor of Aquitaine: I know. That's why I've saved it up until now.

GUESS WHO'S COMING TO DINNER (1967):
John Prentice: Dad... You're my father. I'm your son. I love you. I always have, and I always will. But you think of yourself as a colored man. I think of myself as a man.

THE LOST WEEKEND (1945):
[Nat moves to wipe away the circle of whisky from Don Birnam's glass]
Don Birnam: Don't wipe it away, Nat. Let me have my little vicious circle. You know, the circle is the perfect geometric figure. No end, no beginning.
	
CLOSE-UP (1990):
[ending lines]
Abolfazl Ahankhah (Pedar-e Khanevadeh): I hope he'll be good now and make us proud of him.

THE DECALOGUE (1989):
Magda: Love... that's all it is.
Magda: You'll find a towel in the bathroom.

PARIS IS BURNING (1990):
Dorian Corey: Shade is I don't tell you you're ugly but I don't have to tell you because you know you're ugly... and that's shade.

DIARIES, NOTES, AND SKETCHES (1968):
2.0 star review: I just don't see what others must see in these "diary" films of Jonas Mekas. It just seems to me that if you slap together a bunch of unrelated but kinda pretty looking shots, a lot of "artsy" people will love it. I'm very glad that Mekas was such a champion of avant-garde cinema and art, and I'm sure that some stuff I love might not have been made or at least reached a wide audience without him, but I just find his own work to hold no value. It just exists.

THE CREMATOR (1969):
[last lines]
Kopfrkingl: I'll save them all... the whole world.

Z (1969):
[final lines]
Françoise Bonnot, Voiceover Narration: The military regime banned: long hair, miniskirts, Sophocles, Tolstoy, Euripides, Russian-style toasts, strikes, Aristophanes, Ionesco, Sartre, Albee, Pinter, freedom of the press, sociology, Beckett, Dostoyevsky, modern music, pop music, new math, and the letter Z, which means HE LIVES in Ancient Greek.

THE YOUNG GIRLS OF ROCHEFORT (1967):
Delphine: You'll never get a man, old girl.
Solange: You were born 12 minutes later, so don't "old girl" me!

IN THE HEAT OF THE NIGHT (1967):
[upon the suggestion that he may have murdered Colbert, Endicott slaps Tibbs across the face. Tibbs promptly slaps him back. Endicott is positively shocked]
Eric Endicott: Gillespie?
Chief Gillespie: Yeah.
Eric Endicott: You saw it.
Chief Gillespie: I saw it.
Eric Endicott: Well, what are you gonna do about it?
Chief Gillespie: I don't know.
Eric Endicott: I'll remember that.
[to Tibbs]
Eric Endicott: There was a time when I could've had you shot.

BLOW-UP (1966):
Thomas: Don't let's spoil everything, we've only just met.
Jane: No, we haven't met. You've never seen me.

EL DORADO (1966):
Sheriff J. P. Harrah: What the hell are you doin' here?
Cole: I'm lookin' at a tin star with a... drunk pinned on it.


A DIFFICULT LIFE (1961):
[last lines]
Silvio Magnozzi: Allow me, Eminence. [slaps Commendator Bracci into the pool]
Silvio Magnozzi: [Walks past a crowd of party guests] Elena, let's leave.
Elena Pavinato: The car?
Silvio Magnozzi: No, we're walking.
Silvio Magnozzi: We're going to have a nice breath of air.

THE SOUND OF MUSIC (1965):
Captain von Trapp: Now, when I want you, this is what you will hear.
[blows whistle]
Maria: Oh, no, sir. I'm sorry, sir. I could never answer to a whistle. Whistles are for dogs and cats and other animals, but not for children and definitely not for me. It would be too... humiliating.
Captain von Trapp: Fraulein, were you this much trouble at the Abbey?
Maria: Oh, much more, sir.
Captain von Trapp: Hmm.
[starts walking away. Maria blows her whistle & he turns around]
Maria: Excuse me, sir. I don't know your signal

THE GREAT ESCAPE (1963):
Von Luger: I have had the pleasure of knowing quite a number of British officers in this war. And I flatter myself that we understand one another.
[Ives blows a raspberry]
Von Luger: You are the first American officer I have met. Hilts, isn't it?
Hilts: Captain Hilts, actually.
Von Luger: 17 escape attempts.
Hilts: 18, sir.
Von Luger: A tunnel man, engineer.
Hilts: A flier.
Von Luger: I suppose what's called in the American army a hotshot pilot.
Hilts: Mm-hmm.
Von Luger: Unfortunately, you were shot down anyway. So we are both grounded for the duration of the war.
Hilts: Well, you speak for yourself, Colonel.
Von Luger: You have other plans?
Hilts: I haven't seen Berlin yet, from the ground or from the air, and I plan on doing both before the war is over.
Von Luger: Are all American officers so ill-mannered?
Hilts: Yeah, about 99 percent.
Von Luger: Then perhaps while you are with us you will have a chance to learn some. Ten days isolation, Hilts.
Hilts: CAPTAIN Hilts.
Von Luger: Twenty days.
Hilts: Right.
[turns to walk away]
Hilts: Oh, uh, you'll still be here when I get out?
Von Luger: [visibly annoyed] ... Cooler!

BUNNY LAKE IS MISSING (1965):
[last lines]
Newhouse: Sleep well. Both of you. Now that you exist.

A PATCH OF BLUE (1965):
Selina D'Arcy: I know everything I need to know about you. I love you.
[touching Gordon's face]
Selina D'Arcy: I know you're good, and kind. I know you're colored and I...
Gordon Ralfe: What's that?
Selina D'Arcy: ...And I think you're beautiful!
Gordon Ralfe: [smiling] Beautiful? Most people would say the opposite.
Selina D'Arcy: Well that's because they don't know you.

SECONDS (1966):
Tony: Why are you all staring at me like that? Hey John, why are they staring at me like that?
John: They know.
Tony: They know what?
John: They're like you: reborns.
Tony: [in despair] Oh Nora!
Nora: Shut up, you! Shut up! Shut up, damn you! Just who the hell do you think you are?

AU HASARD BALTHAZAR (1966):
Marie: You bore me.
Jacques: Don't be angry.
Marie: You see our names carved on this bench, our games with Balthazar. But I don't see a thing. I've no more tenderness, no heart, no feelings. Your words don't affect me anymore. Our vows of love, our childhood promises, were in a world of make-believe, not reality. Reality is different.

THE NIGHT OF THE IGUANA (1964):
T. Laurance Shannon: I thought you were sexless. But you've just become a woman. You know how I know that? Because you, not me, are taking pleasure in my being tied up. All women, whether they want to face it or not, want to see a man in a tied-up situation. They spend their lives trying to get a man into a tied-up situation. Their lives are fulfilled when they can get a man or as many men as they can, into a tied-up situation.

THE SWORD OF DOOM (1966):
Ryunosuke Tsukue: I, Ryunosuke Tsukue, trust only my sword in this world. When I fight, I have no family.

WHAT A WAY TO GO (1964):
Rod Anderson, Jr.: What are you doing after the orgy?

A CHARLIE BROWN CHRISTMAS (1965):
[first lines]
Charlie Brown: [Charlie Brown and Linus stop at a wall on their trip to the pond for ice skating] I think there must be something wrong with me, Linus. Christmas is coming, but I'm not happy. I don't feel the way I'm supposed to feel.
[begins to walk with Linus again]
Charlie Brown: I just don't understand Christmas, I guess. I like getting presents and sending Christmas cards and decorating trees and all that, but I'm still not happy. I always end up feeling depressed.
Linus Van Pelt: Charlie Brown, you're the only person I know who can take a wonderful season like Christmas and turn it into a problem. Maybe Lucy's right. Of all the Charlie Browns in the world, you're the Charlie Browniest.

HUSH... HUSH, SWEET CHARLOTTE (1964):
Jewel Mayhew: Well, right here on the public street, in the light of day, let me tell you, Miriam Deering, that murder starts in the heart, and its first weapon is a vicious tongue.

I KNEW HER WELL (1965):
Adriana Astarelli: You could get some old guy who never takes you out to have fun or go dancing.
Adriana's neighbour: Rheumatism is a sign of wealth. Handsome young dance-floor Romeos don't own factories.

TWIN PEAKS (1989):
Pete Martell: "There was a fish in the percolator!"

SEVEN DAYS IN MAY (1964):
General James Mattoon Scott: And if you want to talk about your oath of office, I'm here to tell you face to face, President Lyman, that you violated that oath when you stripped this country of its muscles - when you deliberately played upon the fear and fatigue of the people and told them they could remove that fear by the stroke of a pen. And then when this nation rejected you, lost faith in you, and began militantly to oppose you, you violated that oath by not resigning from office and turning the country over to someone who could represent the people of the United States.
President Jordan Lyman: And that would be General James Mattoon Scott, would it? I don't know whether to laugh at that kind of megalomania, or simply cry.
General James Mattoon Scott: James Mattoon Scott, as you put it, hasn't the slightest interest in his own glorification. But he does have an abiding interest in the survival of this country.
President Jordan Lyman: Then, by God, run for office. You have such a fervent, passionate, evangelical faith in this country - why in the name of God don't you have any faith in the system of government you're so hell-bent to protect?

SHADOWS OF FORGOTTEN ANCESTORS (1965):
[Opening narration]
"The Carpathians, a Gutsul land forgotten by God and people."

THE LEOPARD (1963):
Count Cavriaghi: How big is this palace anyway? How many rooms are there?
Tancredi Falconeri: Nobody knows, not even Uncle. He says a palace in which you know every room isn't worth living in.

PIERROT LE FOU (1965):
Marianne: Pierrot le Fou!
Ferdinard: [repeated line] My name is Ferdinand.

THE SHOP ON MAIN STREET (1965):
Antonin Brtko: I'm your Aryan and you're my Jewess . . . understand?
Rozalia Lautmannová: Ehh?

LONELY ARE THE BRAVE (1962):
Jerri Bonds: Believe you me, if it didn't take men to make babies I wouldn't have anything to do with any of you!

WAR AND PEACE (1967):
Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte: Uncertainty, that's what one fears most.

THE TRIAL (1962):
[first lines]
Narrator: Before the law, there stands a guard. A man comes from the country, begging admittance to the law. But the guard cannot admit him. May he hope to enter at a later time? That is possible, said the guard. The man tries to peer through the entrance. He'd been taught that the law was to be accessible to every man. "Do not attempt to enter without my permission", says the guard. I am very powerful. Yet I am the least of all the guards. From hall to hall, door after door, each guard is more powerful than the last. By the guard's permission, the man sits by the side of the door, and there he waits. For years, he waits. Everything he has, he gives away in the hope of bribing the guard, who never fails to say to him "I take what you give me only so that you will not feel that you left something undone." Keeping his watch during the long years, the man has come to know even the fleas on the guard's fur collar. Growing childish in old age, he begs the fleas to persuade the guard to change his mind and allow him to enter. His sight has dimmed, but in the darkness he perceives a radiance streaming immortally from the door of the law. And now, before he dies, all he's experienced condenses into one question, a question he's never asked. He beckons the guard. Says the guard, "You are insatiable! What is it now?" Says the man, "Every man strives to attain the law. How is it then that in all these years, no one else has ever come here, seeking admittance?" His hearing has failed, so the guard yells into his ear. "Nobody else but you could ever have obtained admittance. No one else could enter this door! This door was intended only for you! And now, I'm going to close it." 

DOG STAR MAN (1965):
1.0 star review: All cinephiles have times they go against the grain. Some do it more than others, but we all have that instinct. And for me, my rejection of Stan Brakhage's body of work may be my most contrarian opinion. To be clear, I respect his desire to experiment. But intent isn't the same thing as impact. The outcome of his work was some deathly dull, anti-cinematic bores. This isn't Man With a Movie Camera; it's 78 minutes of nothing.

MY NEIGHBOR TOTORO (1988):
Tatsuo: "Magnificent tree. It's been around since long ago, Back in the time when people and trees ssed to be friends."

THE EMPEROR'S NAKED ARMY MARCHES ON (1987):
Kenzo Okuzaki: Stop it! I said, stop filming! I'm being beaten up.

THE LONGEST DAY (1962):
Major General Gunther Blumentritt: [in German] This is history. We are living an historical moment. We are going to lose the war because our glorious Führer has taken a sleeping pill and is not to be awakened. Sometimes I wonder which side God is on.

THE SACRIFICE (1986):
[last lines]
Gossen: In the beginning was the Word. Why is that, Papa?

HOUSE (1977):
Farmer selling watermelons: Do you like watermelons?
Keisuke Tougou-sensei: No! I like bananas!
Farmer selling watermelons: BANANAS?
[he turns into a skeleton, which then falls apart]
Keisuke Tougou-sensei: Ah! Bananas! Bananas everywhere!
Keisuke Tougou-sensei: Bananas! Bananas! Bananas! Bananas! Bananas! Bananas! Bananas! Bananas! Bananas! Bananas!
[he is later shown to have been turned into a pile of bananas]

KWAIDAN (1964):
Mi nokichi (segment "Yuki-Onna"): Her eyes. That terrifying woman's eyes - made her look so incredibly beautiful - like something not of this world. She was fair- skinned, like you.

BLUE VELVET (1986):
Frank Booth: What kind of beer do you like?
Jeffrey Beaumont: Heineken.
Frank Booth: [shouting] Heineken? Fuck that shit! Pabst Blue Ribbon!

TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD (1962):
Atticus Finch: If you just learn a single trick, Scout, you'll get along a lot better with all kinds of folks. You never really understand a person until you consider things from his point of view... Until you climb inside of his skin and walk around in it.

ONIBABA (1964):
Woman: Want to sleep with me?
Hachi: [laughs] An old woman like you?
Woman: Stupid! I'm not old on the inside. Come on. Try me.

BIRDMAN OF ALCATRAZ (1962):
Robert Stroud: Why did you come 2,000 miles for nothing? Just to see me once a month?
Stella Johnson: I came because I'm your wife, that's why. Bob, the only life I got is you.
Robert Stroud: Then you've got a damned poor future, old girl. I'm never gonna get outta here.
Stella Johnson: I could get a job in a factory. I could write letters every day. It would be like old times.
Robert Stroud: You'd wither away and die waiting. Forget it, Stell. It's the end of the line.
Robert Stroud: Please, Bob.
Robert Stroud: Now, listen to me. Listen carefully. You fought your heart out for me. You fought your heart out for me, but the sun's gone down. And don't look for it to rise again. I want you to pretend that I'm a dead man. I want you to pretend... that you're standin' on my grave.

SHOAH (1985):
Claude Lanzmann: But a ghetto like Warsaw's, in a great capital, in the heart of the city...
Franz Grassler: That was unusual.
Claude Lanzmann: You say you wanted to maintain the ghetto?
Franz Grassler: Our mission wasn't to annihilate the ghetto, but to keep it alive, to maintain it.
Claude Lanzmann: What does "alive" mean in such conditions?
Franz Grassler: That was the problem. That was the whole problem.
Claude Lanzmann: But people were dying in the streets. There were bodies everywhere?
Franz Grassler: Exactly. That was the paradox.
Claude Lanzmann: You see it as a paradox?
Franz Grassler: I'm sure of it.
Claude Lanzmann: Why? Can you explain?
Franz Grassler: No.
Claude Lanzmann: Why not?
Franz Grassler: Explain what? But the fact is... That wasn't maintaining! Jews were being exterminated daily in the ghetto wrote... To maintain it properly we'd have needed more substantial rations and less crowding.
Claude Lanzmann: Why weren't the rations more humane? Why weren't they? That was a German decision wasn't it?
Franz Grassler: There was no real decision to starve the ghetto. The big decision to exterminate came much later.

FAIL SAFE (1964):
US Ambassador: [over the phone] I can hear the sound of explosions from the north east. The sky is very bright. All lit up.
[phone melts and high pitched whining sound starts]

THE CHILDREN'S HOUR (1961):
Karen: But it's not the truth, not a word of it is true! We've never thought of each other that way.
Martha: No, of course you didn't. But who's to say I didn't. I'd never felt that way about anybody before you. I've never loved a man. I never knew why before, maybe it's that.
Karen: You're tired and worn out.
Martha: It's funny. It's all mixed up. There's something in you, and you don't know anything about it because you don't know it's there. And then suddenly, one night a little girl gets bored and tells a lie, and there, for the first time, you see it. Then you say to yourself, did she see it? Did she sense it?
Karen: But you know it could have been any lie. She was looking for anything to...
Martha: But why this lie? She found the lie with the ounce of truth. Don't you see? I can't stand to have you touch me! I can't stand to have you look at me! Oh, it's all my fault. I have ruined your life and I have ruined my own. I swear I didn't know it! I didn't mean it! Oh, I feel so damn sick and dirty I can't stand it anymore!

RED DESERT (1964):
Giuliana: Are you a leftist or a rightist?
Corrado Zeller: Why do you ask such a question? Are you interested in politics?
Giuliana: Good Lord, no. I was just wondering.
Corrado Zeller: It's like asking, "What do you believe in?" Those are big words, Giuliana, that calls for precise answers. Deep down... one doesn't really know what one believes in. One believes in humanity... in a certain sense. A little less in justice. A little more in progress. One believes in socialism... perhaps. What matters is to act as one thinks right - right for oneself and for others. In other words, with a clean conscience. Mine is at peace. Does that answer your question?
Giuliana: That's some bunch of words you strung together.

THE SERVANT (1963):
Tony: Look, Barrett, don't forget your place. You're nothing but a servant in this house.
Hugo Barrett: Servant? I'm nobody's servant. Who furnished the whole place for you? Who painted it for you. Who does the cooking? Who washes your pants. Who cleans the bathhouse after you? I do! I run the whole bloody place! And what do I get out of it? Nothing!
Tony: Now, listen, Barrett, look...
Hugo Barrett: I know about you, sonny.
Tony: No, look, listen, I am grateful, honestly.
Hugo Barrett: Yeah.
Tony: No, don't be daft. You know I am.
Hugo Barrett: Yeah, I believe you.
Tony: No, I... I don't what I'd do without you.

THREADS (1984):
Mrs. Beckett: Ruth... Ruth, love... come on love, you'll have to eat something. But you'll have to, love, it's not just you now, you know, the baby needs some food as well.
Ruth Beckett: [crying] I can't care about this baby anymore, I wish it was dead.
Mrs. Beckett: Oh Ruth! Don't say things like that.
Ruth Beckett: There's no point! There's no point with Jimmy dead.
Mrs. Beckett: But you don't know he's dead, love...
Ruth Beckett: He is! He is! I KNOW he is!
Mrs. Beckett: You can't be certain.
Ruth Beckett: We're breathing in all this radiation all the time - my baby!
[sobs]
Ruth Beckett: It'll be ugly and deformed.

THE BIG CITY (1963):
Arati: You wouldn't recognize me on the job.
Subrata Mazumdar: What about at home? Would I recognize you at home?
Arati: You don't recognize me? Tell me honestly.
[Subrata shakes his head no]
Arati: Why not?
Subrata Mazumdar: It all feels a bit unfamiliar. It feels a bit...
Arati: What about this?
[points at her cheek]
Arati: You don't recognize my mole? I'm still the same housewife.

THE EXTERMINATING ANGEL (1962):
Carlos Conde; Doctor: Since last night, not one of us, try as we might, has been able to leave this room. What's going on here?

LOVE STREAMS (1984):
Robert Harmon: Life is a series of suicides, divorces, promises broken, children smashed.

ONE, TWO, THREE (1961):
Peripetchikoff: But if I defect, you know what they will do to my family? They will line them up against the wall and shoot them! My wife, and my mother-in-law, and my sister-in-law, and my brother-in-law.
[pauses]
Peripetchikoff: Comrades, let's do it!

NOSTALGIA (1983):
Domenico: One drop plus one drop makes a bigger drop, not two.

A RAISIN IN THE SUN (1961):
Walter Lee Younger: A man say to his woman, "I got me a dream." She says, "Eat your eggs, they're getting cold."

L'ECLISSE (1962):
[final lines]
Piero: We'll see each other tomorrow. We'll see each other tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
Vittoria: And the day after that and the next.
Piero: And the day after that.
Vittoria: And tonight.

INHERIT THE WIND (1960):
Mrs. Krebs - Righteous Townswoman: You're the stranger, ain'tcha? Are you looking for a nice, clean place to stay?
E. K. Hornbeck: Madam, I had a nice clean place to stay... and I left it, to come here.

TWO WOMEN (1960):
Cesira: Do you know what they have done those "heroes" that you command? Do you know what your great soldiers have done in a holy church under the eyes of the Madonna? Do you know?
American Soldier: Peace, peace.
Cesira: Yes, peace, beautiful peace! You ruined my little daughter forever! Now she's worse than dead. No, I'm not mad, I'm not mad! Look at her! And tell me if I am mad! Rotten crazy bastards!

HOME FROM THE HILL (1960):
Capt. Wade Hunnicutt: ...Kind of man that walks around with nothing in his pockets, no identification because everyone knows who you are. No cash because anyone in town would be happy to lend you anything you need. No keys 'cause you don't keep a lock on a single thing you own. And no watch because time waits on you.

THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALANCE (1962):
Tom Doniphon: You talk too much, think too much. Besides, YOU didn't kill Liberty Valance.

PARIS, TEXAS (1984):
Jane Henderson: I... I used to make long speeches to you after you left. I used to talk to you all the time, even though I was alone. I walked around for months talking to you. Now I don't know what to say. It was easier when I just imagined you. I even imagined you talking back to me. We'd have long conversations, the two of us. It was almost like you were there. I could hear you, I could see you, smell you. I could hear your voice. Sometimes your voice would wake me up. It would wake me up in the middle of the night, just like you were in the room with me. Then... it slowly faded. I couldn't picture you anymore. I tried to talk out loud to you like I used to, but there was nothing there. I couldn't hear you. Then... I just gave it up. Everything stopped. You just... disappeared. And now I'm working here. I hear your voice all the time. Every man has your voice.

SANS SOLEIL (1983):
Narrator: Who said that time heals all wounds? It would be better to say that time heals everything - except wounds. With time, the hurt of separation loses its real limits. With time, the desired body will soon disappear, and if the desiring body has already ceased to exist for the other, then what remains is a wound, disembodied.

CLEO FROM 5 TO 7 (1962):
Florence, 'Cléo Victoire': Ugliness is a kind of death. As long as I'm beautiful, I'm even more alive than the others.

FANNY AND ALEXANDER (1982):
Alexander Ekdahl: If there is a god, then he's a shit, and I'd like to kick him in the butt.
Aron: Your theory is very interesting and appears to be justified.

KOYAANISQATSI (1982):
title card: ko-yaa-nis-qatsi
[from the Hopi language]
title card: n. 1. crazy life. 2. life in turmoil. 3. life out of balance. 4. life disintegrating. 5. a state of life that calls for another way of living.

THROUGH A GLASS DARKLY (1961):
Karin: It's so horrible to see your own confusion and understand it.

FITZCARRALDO (1982):
Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald - 'Fitzcarraldo': How can anyone learn patriotism from a school book?
Young Missionary: The Government requires it.
Old Missionary: The natives get used to it. Like vaccination.
Young Missionary: The children already feel like little Peruvians. The other day I asked them, "Are you Indians?" "No," they said, "not we, the ones up the river, they are Indians." And then I asked. "What are Indians?" "They said to me "Indians are people who can't read and who don't know how to wash their clothes."

ALL THAT HEAVEN ALLOWS (1955):
Cary Scott: You can't ignore convention.
Dr. Hennessy: So you gave up a man you were in love with because you were afraid of Mona and the others. And you have the great satisfaction of being taken back into the fold.
Cary Scott: Well I was thinking of my children.
Dr. Hennessy: You're just as lonely as you were before. Lonelier, in fact. Kay married. And Ned abroad. So what good was your noble sacrifice? Cary, marry him.

STROSZEK (1977):
Der Bruno Stroszek: We're in America now. I thought that in America everything would get better and that we would finally reach our goal. But no. Bruno is being chopped off as if he'd never existed. You wouldn't recognize me any more.
Eva: Bruno, nobody kicks you here.
Der Bruno Stroszek: No, not in that way. Not visibly. But they do it mentally.





















